All right.
So I hope you were able to add these two buttons, and that's OK.
Let's go ahead and do that.
So after our rating, they're just below that.
I'm going to add a spacer just to give us some space.
To give it padding.
Bottom.
Of about 15 dpi or such.
All right, let's say a row.
And surrounded.
Button like this.
Verse two of them.
All right, so the first one, we're going to say label, it's going to be update.
Remember this wanted button we created earlier?
That's why they look like this.
OK.
And this one is going to be delete.
And let's give let's make this just one single line.
That's good.
And let's give another spacer here.
I say height, actually width, because this is in a row of about 100.
Let's see in the row, let's perhaps say.
Horizontal arrangement in this arrangement space in between.
And see if that's going to help and then it's not going to add that space are.
OK.
Of course, we know that for each one, we have the lambda for one click OK.
Click on one of these.
OK, that looks good, but I want to give some space there, and I'm just going to get rid of all of
that altogether.
And let's just add a spacer here with about 100 dpi to keep that nice space.
All right.
Much, much better.
OK, so things are looking good now, what is they want to do when we click on Update?
Well, we need to update the book now.
Here's what I'm going to do first.
Because we want to make sure that we don't want to update, you know, there's nothing here, right?
Because remember, this is going to be coming from our database, right?
If they've changed nothing, they update nothing.
When they click Update, we don't want to make that trip back to our database to do nothing right.
That makes some sense.
So we're going to put an if statement here.
So I'm going to first create a few variables here to only update if the fields have new data.
So I say, wow, that changed.
Note, OK?
Notice that is when I say book right notes.
If that's not equal to our notes, text and value, what I'm doing here, I'm I'm checking if our books
that notes coming from our database is not the same as what we have in our text field.
This is true.
That means then we're good to update.
So this is going to be true, which means then we can go ahead and update you.
OK, so I'm going to do the same for others.
Changed rate rating.
Waiting to end,
it's hard to rating that foul, right?
And then I'm going to look for is finished.
Time stamp.
So here I'm going to look at a few things, so I'm going to put in sort of if statement here, so first
is finished reading and getting remember is finished reading here is the value we created earlier.
If it's true, so they have finished reading what I'm going to do.
That means then I'm going to just go to use our time stamp, make sure we get the Google Firebase time
stamp this very important.
Say that now because I'm saying, but this will look at is it because this will look and say, Well,
this is finished reading only happens when we click on our button.
Right.
Start reading here, click and then we're going to.
And then we're going to pass and this time stamp that now because we say they finish it now, so it's
going to be here.
OK?
Else we're going to just use our book that finish reading timestamp.
So checking to see if it's finished, they've clicked here to say it's finished.
We're going to take that time stamp when they clicked and add to our he's finished time stamp.
Else, we're just going to get whatever we have from our finished reading book object.
All right, let's do the same thing with is actually, I was looking at this mark as read and I start
reading, It's OK now this is started.
Time.
Standpoint for went through the same thing, if it started reading value is true, then.
Time stamp.
Not now.
OK.
Else we're going to get from our database, so book that started reading timestamp.
OK, that's pretty much it that we need to worry about updating.
OK, so I'm going to create not available here.
I'm just going to say book to update.
So I'm going to check all of these guys, so it's changed notes.
Or changed rating or.
He started reading that value is true or is finished reading that value as well.
OK, so what I'm saying here, I'm checking for either one of those is true, then something we need
to go update because that means this book to update is going to be true this value.
So then we can just put.
So what I'm doing here, I'm putting all of these statements, all of this, checking all of this,
checking here into one variable so I can just use that.
So then I can say, let's change this to book update.
Like that could now come a tweet the actual.
Book or in this case, the hash map to update, OK, so book to update this case where you have great
hash map of key value pair.
And I can just go ahead and create one real quick.
And so what I want to do?
Well, first of all, I'm going to go finished.
Underscore reading and the score at.
Get the key value here, if he's going to be is finished timestamps, I'm going to pass that one.
Now we have to be mindful because this finished, this key has to be exactly the same as you have here.
So if you have something different, you know, finish reading at it, you have to take whatever we
added here as the field and has to be exactly the same because remember, this is going to be sent over
here to update.
If you have something different here and you're passing something different here, you're not going
to.
This is not going to work.
So be very careful with these fields.
They're very careful.
OK, I'm going to continue then started reading at the Valley is going to be is started.
Reading timestamp like that of study time stamp.
And then we're going to pass rating two and I say rating, right, this is going to change because remember
that rating vowel that we had created earlier here.
So I'm going to get to that state that value.
OK.
And then notes
the value is going to be notes.
Texts that value like that.
OK, now I'm going to have to invoke that to map like that so that this.
Hash map will transform that into a map, so we are able to save there.
Now we could have just put straight a R M book, but it's OK.
Doing it like this because we just have a few fields that we want to update.
Instead of putting the whole object, we can just send in just an hash map like this.
And actually, it can remove all of this from here.
Put it outside.
Because we're just checking things anyway, right there, and we're just out of there.
OK, so now inside of our own click because remember this button here you have over there is that on
press?
That's why we have this lamp to that, right?
So when I click, this is where we can save stuff now.
So now I can see the following because I have this boolean here the checks to make sure that notes changed.
Change reading and so forth that the something has changed, at least so that we don't make that trip
for nothing to save nothing.
That's not a good thing.
I'm going to check here if a book update Boolean, right?
If that's true, then I'm going to say Firebase Firestorm Store.
Get that instance and I'm going to go to collection.
I'm it's going to be our books collection once we get that collection to get to the actual document.
In this case, the actual book that we want to update because we will have many books here, right?
So how do we do that?
I can say document, then pass a document and pass the document ID.
Well, how do we get that document it?
Well, we get that from our book.
That's the beauty.
And pass the ID.
Like this?
OK.
How wonderful.
And do you remember earlier the reason why I said we wanted to physically in our book, add that ID
field of this book, right?
It's the same ID of the document.
We want to actually add it into our field of the book because then we would want to do something like
this.
Look how easy this is, because each book now will have that document ID, which is, of course, the
book ID.
Now we have access to that.
So we're going to say that update and update that book.
And what is that we're going to update or pass here is going to be our book to update it just looked
at this like that.
And of course, we can attach the add on complete listener this and then we can say, add on failure
listener like that as well.
So here I am, just to get log W.
It's going to say error.
Updating document and pass, I take exception like that.
All right, so on complete here we have our tasks and can see task.
I see a lot of the sort we can see.
It's our task that result into string like this.
This is just for us to see.
Let's see.
Let's see if this works.
I'm going to just run this real quick.
OK, let's pick this book, and I'm going to add something here.
It's a great book and I say started, Aha!
There we go.
And then I'm going to give a five star rating and say update.
Nothing happens.
Let's see.
This is going to be, I believe, this book.
Yes, that's the book.
Let's see the fields.
Yay!
Notes.
Great book and writing is five.
And did we start reading when I started reading and there is the date.
It comes in like this, but we can then format that when we get back.
All right.
So it's working.
Now check this out.
If I go back.
And click this again, look at that.
It just started on, and we have this time stamp, this is why we will need to come back formatted this.
That is so that it doesn't look like this, but at least you see now you updated the book.
So now it's this great book in our thoughts.
And five.